---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/rules/mystery-process/"}
---

A [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]] must be using Active [[NPCs/Awakened\|Mage]] Sight already to Focus. Focused [[NPCs/Awakened\|Mage]] Sight has two stages: [[Rules/Scrutiny\|Scrutiny]] and [[Rules/Revelation\|Revelation]]. Both pit the perceptive power of the [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]] against the complexity of the Mystery she is trying to illuminate. This is represented in game terms by a trait called [[Rules/Opacity\|Opacity]] — simply put, an abstract measure of how deep a [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]] must delve in order to fully understand a Mystery. A [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]] can attempt [[Rules/Revelation\|Revelation]] at any time. [[Rules/Revelation\|Revelation]] is the magical equivalent of a glance, a summary, a quick-read through, or a taste test. On its own, it can be useful, even illuminating, but it does not grant the [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]] depth of knowledge. For that, she needs [[Rules/Scrutiny\|Scrutiny]], the in-depth, time-consuming, and sometimes dangerous practice of magically studying a target.

[[Rules/Revelation\|Revelation]] and [[Rules/Scrutiny\|Scrutiny]] are two different actions. They can be attempted in either order; a [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]] can Reveal a Mystery before Scrutinizing it to gain a baseline understanding, or Scrutinize the Mystery before Revealing it to reduce its [[Rules/Opacity\|Opacity]]. **What a [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]] cannot do, however, is Reveal a Mystery twice without Scrutinizing it**. Once a [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]] has Revealed a Mystery, she has learned all she can without using [[Rules/Scrutiny\|Scrutiny]].