---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/rules/scrutiny/"}
---


The player spends a point of **Willpower** to activate Scrutiny. While Scrutinizing, the penalty for rolls unrelated to magic increases to –3.The influx of information she receives renders her unable to interact with the  Fallen World in any meaningful way. If the [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]] employs Scrutiny on a subject protected by some kind of magical concealment, the Storyteller should use the same metric as Active [[NPCs/Awakened\|Mage]] Sight for determining whether a Clash of Will is appropriate. If a [[Rules/Clash of Wills\|Clash of Wills]] is appropriate, the [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]]’s player receives the rote quality on the roll.

Scrutiny of a subject allows a [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]] to determine its Mysteries. The number and nature of Mysteries in a subject is up to the Storyteller (see below). Scrutiny is an extended action (see p. 214), but with a few variations. The time per roll is one turn, meaning that the player can’t use an exceptional success to reduce the time per roll. Also, the player doesn’t have a target number of successes. Instead, every time she reaches a **number of successes equal to the Mystery’s [[Rules/Opacity\|Opacity]]**, the **[[Rules/Opacity\|Opacity]]** rating **falls by one**. For instance, if a [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]] begins Scrutinizing a lingering spell with [[Rules/Opacity\|Opacity]] 4, after the player accumulates  four successes, the [[Rules/Opacity\|Opacity]] rating drops to three. If the [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]] continues (and the player accumulates three more successes), the [[Rules/Opacity\|Opacity]] rating drops to two.

In addition, while most extended actions are limited by the number of dice in the player’s unmodified dice pool, Scrutiny does not suffer this limitation. Maintaining Scrutiny does, however, become more dangerous to the [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]]. After a number of rolls for Scrutinizing a given Mystery equal to the [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]]’s unmodified **Gnosis + Arcanum**, the character’s own magic starts to leak into the Mystery. In game terms, **every time** the player **fails** a Scrutiny roll after reaching this limit, **add half the [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]]’s Gnosis (round up)** to the Mystery’s **[[Rules/Opacity\|Opacity]]**. Unfortunately, this doesn’t apply only to the [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]] in question; anyone who attempts to Scrutinize this Mystery later has to separate out the clumsy [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]]’s influence on it.

The player can spend Mana during Scrutiny, releasing it and watching the shapes it makes as it sublimates into Fallen reality to gain clues about the Mystery at hand. Each point of Mana spent adds one success to that turn’s roll, but only if the roll succeeds. If the roll fails, the Mana spent that turn is lost. The [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]] cannot spend more Mana per turn than her Gnosis allows (p. 86). 

**Dice Pool**: Gnosis + Arcanum
**Action**: Extended (each roll equals one turn, total number
of successes varies)

### Roll Results
**Dramatic Failure**: The player accrues no successes, and adds two to the Mystery’s [[Rules/Opacity\|Opacity]]. If the player has already made a number of rolls equal to the unmodified dice pool, a Supernal entity of the [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]]’s Path takes note of the [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]] and may affect him with its powers as long as he maintains his [[NPCs/Awakened\|Mage]] Sight.
**Failure**: The player accrues no successes, but can continue to Scrutinize. If the player has already made a number of rolls equal to the unmodified dice pool, then a failed roll adds half the [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]]’s Gnosis (round up) to the Mystery’s [[Rules/Opacity\|Opacity]].
**Success**: The player accrues successes, and can choose to spend Mana in order to add more, up to the normal per-turn limits of the character’s Gnosis. If the player accumulates enough successes to lower the Mystery’s [[Rules/Opacity\|Opacity]], all successes are reset and the [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]] can continue (that is, it is not possible to lower a Mystery’s [[Rules/Opacity\|Opacity]] by more than one level in a single turn). If the [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]] chooses to break off the Scrutiny, she can reinstate it later, with the [[Rules/Opacity\|Opacity]] rating at whatever level it was when the [[NPCs/Awakened\|mage]] broke off the attempt.
**Exceptional Success**: The player accrues successes and reveals mysteries as described above. In addition, since the exceptional success mechanics for normal extended actions (p. 214) do not apply, the player may choose one of the following options: She can apply all successes gained in this roll, even if doing so lowers the [[Rules/Opacity\|Opacity]] more than once; she can spend a point of Mana to blot out the Mysteries she is seeing so that other [[NPCs/Awakened\|mages]] have a more difficult time scrutinizing them (add the character’s Gnosis to the Mystery’s [[Rules/Opacity\|Opacity]]); or she can spend a point of Mana to cover her tracks, obscuring any trace of her Nimbus from the area (anyone magically searching for her Scrutiny suffers a penalty equal to her Gnosis).